docs/pipelines/run-cmd.md, before:

# Running arbitrary commands

!!! info

    This pipeline starting script is [nemo_skills/pipeline/run_cmd.py](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Skills/blob/main/nemo_skills/pipeline/run_cmd.py)

    All extra parameters are directly executed as a shell command.

We often need to run arbitrary pre/post processing commands as part of a larger pipeline and thus we provide a simple
`run_cmd` utility that can be used to schedule those on slurm. Here is an example that simply enters the packaged
code and tries to install it (will finish with error if not running from NeMo-Skills repo or other installable package).

```bash
ns run_cmd --cluster=local cd /nemo_run/code/ && pip install -e .
```

There are many more examples of how to use `run_cmd` throughout our documentation.

## LLM Server and Sandbox Server

While we can run arbitrary commands with the default `run_cmd` script, we also provide the ability to
run a LLM server with the `--model` argument and a few extra arguments for the server config. These arguments 
are similar to the ones used for `start_server` script.

This can be useful to run a server on a local machine or on a cluster with GPUs in a slurm job, while also being able to
run arbirary code that uses LLM calls. 

### Example

Say you have the following inference file that uses OpenAI API with a vLLM backed server (say to run a 
project that is compatible with OpenAI API). Imagine a file called `inference.py` with the following code:

```python
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI(api_key='EMPTY', base_url=f"http://0.0.0.0:5000/v1", timeout=None)
api_model = client.models.list().data[0].id

response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model=api_model,
    messages=[
        {"role": "user", "content": "What is the capital of France?"},
    ],
    temperature=0.7,
    max_tokens=128,
    top_p=0.95,
    n=1,
    stream=False,
)
print(response.choices[0].message.content)
```

Then we can run the server and the inference code in a single command:

```bash
ns run_cmd \
    --cluster=local \
    --model=Qwen/Qwen3-1.7B \
    --server_type=vllm \
    --server_gpus=1 \
    --with_sandbox \
    cd /nemo_run/code/ && python inference.py
```

Commit message:

Enhance run-cmd.md with detailed instructions for running the server and inference code in a sandboxed environment
Signed-off-by: smajumdar <titu1994@gmail.com>

docs/pipelines/run-cmd.md, after:

# Running arbitrary commands

!!! info

    This pipeline starting script is [nemo_skills/pipeline/run_cmd.py](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Skills/blob/main/nemo_skills/pipeline/run_cmd.py)

    All extra parameters are directly executed as a shell command.

We often need to run arbitrary pre/post processing commands as part of a larger pipeline and thus we provide a simple
`run_cmd` utility that can be used to schedule those on slurm. Here is an example that simply enters the packaged
code and tries to install it (will finish with error if not running from NeMo-Skills repo or other installable package).

```bash
ns run_cmd --cluster=local cd /nemo_run/code/ && pip install -e .
```

There are many more examples of how to use `run_cmd` throughout our documentation.

## LLM Server and Sandbox Server

While we can run arbitrary commands with the default `run_cmd` script, we also provide the ability to
run a LLM server with the `--model` argument and a few extra arguments for the server config. These arguments 
are similar to the ones used for `start_server` script.

This can be useful to run a server on a local machine or on a cluster with GPUs in a slurm job, while also being able to
run arbirary code that uses LLM calls. 

### Example

Say you have the following inference file that uses OpenAI API with a vLLM backed server (say to run a 
project that is compatible with OpenAI API). Imagine a file called `inference.py` with the following code:

```python
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI(api_key='EMPTY', base_url=f"http://0.0.0.0:5000/v1", timeout=None)
api_model = client.models.list().data[0].id

response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model=api_model,
    messages=[
        {"role": "user", "content": "What is the capital of France?"},
    ],
    temperature=0.7,
    max_tokens=128,
    top_p=0.95,
    n=1,
    stream=False,
)
print(response.choices[0].message.content)
```

Then we can run the server and the inference code in a single command as below. We will also show how to start the code 
execution server that can be used to run arbitrary code in a sandboxed environment. This can be useful to safely 
execute untrusted code or to run code that requires a specific environment in a container without affecting the host 
system.

```bash
ns run_cmd \
    --cluster=local \
    --model=Qwen/Qwen3-1.7B \
    --server_type=vllm \
    --server_gpus=1 \
    --with_sandbox \
    cd /nemo_run/code/ && python inference.py
```

This will launch the LLM inference server, the
